Zeon lights she's a spokesperson for
extinction rebellion welcome I've seen
some of your activists claim on TV that
billions of people are going to die in
quite short order one of your founders
Roger Hallam said in April our children
are going to die in the next 10 to 20
years what's the scientific basis for
these claims
so these claims have been disputed
admittedly there are some scientists who
are agreeing and there's some who's
saying that they're simply not true but
you know the overall issue is that these
deaths are going to have we don't know
exact numbers and actually it's a little
bit you know concerning to focus on how
just how many deaths there will be
deaths and much suffering and that you
know and any any amount is enough as far
as we're concerned but most scientists
don't agree with this climate change
scientists those who know there is a
problem and it has to be tackled and
things have to be done more has to be
done that's being done I look through
the UN Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change the latest ar5 and the
October of last year special report
I see no reference to billions of people
going to die or children going to die in
under 20 years well we're not claiming I
don't think he was claiming that that
was from that report no I know that but
what I'm saying is I don't know where
the scientific validity comes for that I
mean how would they die mass migration
around the world already taking place
due to prolonged drought in countries
it's particularly in South Asia
there are wild fires in Indonesia the
Amazon rainforest was a Siberia you know
the Arctic these are all these are all
really important problems and they can
cause fatalities but they don't cause
billions of deaths they don't mean that
our young people will all be dead in 20
years no perhaps not in 20 years but I
can't speak to what Roger was and you
know he's one of you that was that he's
one of the members of extinction
rebellion yes I mean you you talk
weather-related disasters there seem to
be a lot of them around at the moment
and people die from them but in the
latest figures I've seen a hundred years
ago where
related disasters killed half a million
people a year
today it's 20,000 a year still 20,000
too many but it's a reduction of 95,000
it doesn't lead to the 95% the reduction
of 95% it does not lead to a death of
billions I mean aren't you scaring
people with this rhetoric aren't you I
think that I think there's a danger of
scaring people simply because we're not
taking it seriously enough and people
are feeling really you know desperate
that we're heard on this and and
unfortunately you know alarmist language
works which is why we're discussing it
right now it doesn't work it could I
mean I've seen young girls on television
part of your demonstrations thank you
the school ones when they they take the
day off to demonstrate crying because
they think they're going to die in five
or six years time crying because they
don't think they'll ever see adulthood
and yet there is no scientific basis for
the claims that your organization is
making the young people that I've spoken
to aren't crying because they think
they're going to die in a few years it's
because they don't see their children as
having a future they don't want to have
children and they're worrying about you
know coastal regions going underwater
other countries and island nations going
underwater you know the Maldives going
underwater that mass displacement that's
happening the weather extremes which may
may be on a downward trajectory but
climate sliders are telling us that they
will be on the increase
take rising sea levels because the sea
levels are rising there's no that the UN
I PCC makes that quite clear but even
the UN IPCC says that it's median
projection for sea rising is half a
meter by 2100 by 2100 at the end of this
century now that will create problems
from places from Miami to Bangladesh but
half a meter will not result in billions
of people dying if we do the right thing
it could be managed if we do the right
thing but we're not doing much at all at
the moment so this is one of the
problems but you accept that half a
meter would not if the UN median
would not result in the sort of
apocalyptic predictions that your
organization makes it's very
conservative numbers that's what we'd
say and actually a lot of the data in
the IPCC report not not criticizing
scientist because they did an incredible
job using pre-industrial levels of data
they're looking at you know carbon
emissions they're not looked at
factoring feedback loops things like
this
there are calm there are climate
scientists saying now that we think it's
a lot worse you know James Hansen X NASA
scientist is saying we're in a planetary
emergency so we're using that language
we're not we're not trying to use a long
miss language in listening to what
scientists are saying and using language
that we feel is appropriate to the
situation of your other founders said
that she thought everybody could be dead
within several decades 97% was the
figure she put on it but you want at the
moment the IPCC policy they agreed
policies to try and cut carbon emissions
in half by 2030 and go to zero net
emissions by 2050 but you want 2025 for
zero emissions only six years away what
would that require I mean I'm not here
to ant to give you solutions and to tell
you what we should be doing that's not
we're listening we're saying listen to
the experts let's listen to what their
ideas are what they're saying and at the
moment we're not putting those plans in
place we're not creating policies that
reflect what those scientists are saying
this is why we're protesters but the net
the experts have consensus around
getting Net Zero by 2050 you're saying
2025 you know research into the IPCC
report was more recent by professor
Michael Mann who looked at where they
came up with the 2050 figure and
actually they're they're relying on a
carbon capture bio gas energy storage
Beks and there's a problem with that
that it's an untested technology and by
relying on that there's a 50/50 chance
that we will fail with the 2050 you
clear in place you can always pick one
piece of research the fact is the IPCC
report has 6,000 scientific references
91 authors and is a global consensus
with review editors from 40 countries
but
come back to the 2025 target one critic
has said it would mean the confiscation
of petrol cars state rationing of meat
and limiting families to one flight
every five years and that was actually
on a 2030 target do you agree with that
I agree that we need to do whatever it
takes to bring emissions down to you
know allow young people to have a future
you know be able to have some some hope
for the future and I'm not I'm not
saying that because we're alarming
children I'm listening to what they're
saying they're learning about the
consequences of climate change at school
and they're worrying about of course
there are not argue about the
consequences of climate change at all
but you would have to stop to reach your
atari you'd have to stop all flying
aviation would come to an end possibly I
mean by 2025 again this is not this is
something that we need to look at the
egg we need to look at the aviation
industry we need to do an analysis on
what needs to happen and then we know we
know one on all on all industries
agriculture energy everything I know
what we're done flying it would reduce
global temperatures using the mainstream
climate models by zero point zero three
degrees zero point zero three degrees
and you would stop all flying but what
you've just said with the IPCC report
we're both in agreement that we listen
to that that's 99 percent consensus of
scientists that's great we agree with
that so that report is saying if we
don't bring emissions down do the whole
I understand point five degrees so
aren't we in agreement that we live the
2025 target which is a principle there's
to ask you this most homes in this
country are heated by gas most people
cook with gas the fact is all of that
would have to go in six years for a 2025
target wouldn't it all of it we put a
man on the moon before we have the
internet and mobile phone